📝(docs) add permissions documentation (#1977)
openfun/marsha: docs/permissions.md

# Permissions

`marsha` user access and permissions are managed following two different approaches:

> - For the LTI part, the authentication and authorization are managed by the LTI consumer site.
>   The LTI consumer site is responsible for authenticating the user and determining
>   their `role`. The user ID and Role are then passed to `marsha` through the LTI
>   request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- - In the LTI context, the authentication and authorization are managed by the LMS.
  The LMS site is responsible for authenticating the user and determining
  their `role`. The user ID and Role are then passed to `marsha` through the LTI
  request.
```

- For the standalone site, the authentication and authorization are managed by `marsha`.
  `marsha` can also rely on external SSO (see [renater_federation_saml.md](renater_federation_saml.md)).

## LTI

### Authentication

> The user is authenticated by the LTI consumer site, and `marsha` relies on the data provided by the signed LTI request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user is authenticated by the LMS, and `marsha` relies on the data provided by the signed LTI request.
```

Reviewer 2: `LTI consumer site` is accurate IMO. In richie we are consuming marsha in LTI and it is not a LMS. But you can argue that it's a edge case.

Once the first LTI request has been received, `marsha` will provide a pair of access/refresh JWT for the frontend 
to authenticate requests.
These JWT contains the authentication/authorization information provided by the original LTI request.

### Authorization

> The user's `role` is provided by the LTI consumer site, and `marsha` relies on the data provided by the signed LTI request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user's `role` is provided by the LMS, and `marsha` relies on the data provided by the signed LTI request.
```

The frontend application provides the login page, the backend will handle the authentication process and 
generate a pair of access/refresh JWT for the frontend to make requests.
These JWT only contains the authentication information (user ID).

### Authorization

Authorizations are built around several models:

- `OrganizationAccess` links a user to an organization and a role for this organization.
- `ConsumerSiteAccess` links a user to a consumer site and a role for this consumer site.
- `PlaylistAccess` links a user to a playlist and a role for this playlist.

For each one, a user can only have one role (_.e.g._ only one link between a user and a playlist).

#### Organization access

A user is linked to an organization through the `OrganizationAccess` model. This can provide three roles:

- `ADMIN`: the user is an administrator of the organization.
- `INSTRUCTOR`: the user is an instructor of the organization.
- `STUDENT`: the user is a student of the organization.

##### Organization administrator

The organization administrator should be able to do "everything" regarding the organization. 
Among other things, they can: 

> - 🚧 Create and manage (read/write) all the organization's access control.

Reviewer: What is the meaning of 🚧 ? A work in progress ?
Maybe we should add a note about it ?

Author: I've squashed the fixup, sorry, I added a note here : https://github.com/openfun/marsha/pull/1977/files#diff-8300d5dd12494e4952d9b3f5f7e3d9fa4c7e7ef65be7eafa37d7614716e851f0R51

- 🚧 Manage (read/write) all the users of the organization.
- Create and manage (read/write) all the playlists of the organization.
- Create and manage (read/write) all the videos of the organization.
- Create and manage (read/write) all the classrooms of the organization.
- Create and manage (read/write) all the classroom documents of the organization.
- 🚧 Create and manage (read/write) all the documents of the organization.
- Create and manage (read/write) all the deposited files of the organization.
- Create and manage (read/write) all the Markdown documents of the organization.
- Manage (read/write) all the portability requests of the organization.

##### Organization instructor

The organization instructor can:

- Create new playlists.

##### Organization student

The organization student has no specific permission for now.

#### Consumer site access

> A user is linked to a consumer site through the `ConsumerSiteAccess` model. This can provide three roles:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A user is linked to a LMS through the `ConsumerSiteAccess` model. This can provide three roles:
```

> - `ADMIN`: the user is an administrator of the consumer site.
> - `INSTRUCTOR`: the user is an instructor of the consumer site.
> - `STUDENT`: the user is a student of the consumer site.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ADMIN`: the user is an administrator of the LMS.
- `INSTRUCTOR`: the user is an instructor of the LMS.
- `STUDENT`: the user is a student of the LMS.
```
